# Huffman Coding Lab
This is a coding assigment that I did in one of my computer science classes. Our professor encouraged us to post it to our personal GitHub, so that's what I did. This program should compress text files roughly 60% of their original size. But in very small text files, the compressed file will often be bigger.

# How To Use This Program
This program will first ask you whether you want to compress or decompress a text file. Then it will ask you where to look for the file to compress/decompress (input path). After you enter in the input file path, you have to state where you want to save the compressed/decompressed file (output path). 

## Compressing the File
1. The file will be read. It will count how many characters there were in the file, and how many each there were.
2. The Huffman tree will be built.
3. Character codes (0's and 1's) are generated by traversing through the tree.
4. Create the header (store total number of characters and character codes, and they are separated by ASCII code 30, which is the record separator)
5. set the header by using Storage
6. Insert a binary string containing the character codes using storage
7. Save the binary file into the output path

## Decompressing the File
1. The compressed file will be opened using Storage
2. Get header using storage
3. Rebuild the Huffman tree with the help of the character codes from the header
4. Extract the binary file using Storage and write each character to the output file.
5. Save the uncompressed file into the output path
